
The Curse of a Fatal Flaw
Every highly tragic and dramatic figure has a fatal flaw that leads to his or her downfall. The character of Medea fits into this category perfectly. Excessive passion is what leads Medea to her destruction. Her love for Jason, her selfishness, and her rage are all factors of Medea's harmartia.
First, the strongest factor contributing to Medea's fatal flaw is her love for Jason. During Jason's quest of searching for the Golden Fleece and meets the Princess of Colchis, Medea falls madly in love with Jason and runs off to lolcos with him. Medea and Jason get married and have two children. Medea's excessive love for Jason started showing when she killed his uncle, who was the king of lolcos at the time, so that Jason could take over the throne and rule. But his uncle's murder resulted negatively for Medea and Jason. They were forced to flee from lolcos to the kingdom of Corinth. Once in Corinth, Jason meets the king of Corinth's daughter. He leaves Medea and their two children and marries the princess. Because Medea is madly in love with Jason, Medea is crushed to find out that Jason has left her. Medea explains to the women of Corinth that, It has crushed my heart. Life has no pleasure left, dear friends. I want to die. Jason was my whole life; he knows that well (24). Therefore, Medea becomes outraged and over powered with excessive passion. 
Secondly, Medea's selfishness provides power to her fatal flaw. Medea's selfishness is displayed through the act of killing her own two sons. Medea understands that the slaying of her children will make Jason miserable. During this time, the chorus recognizes her self-worship and states, O miserable mother, to destroy your own increase, murder the babes of your body! Stone and iron are you, as you resolved to be (56). Medea does not stop to think what pain she may cause to herself by murdering them. She is only concerned about her happiness that will be derived from Jason's grieving. Medea comes to the conclusion that it is worth the suffering just to see her ex-husband unhappy. Medea states, ...my pain's a fair price, to take away your smile (59). This exhibits Medea's selfishness by the slaying of her sons just to cause sorrow to Jason for her own pleasure. Therefore, selfishness contributes to Medea's harmartia.
Medea's rage also leads to her fatal flaw of excessive passion. Her excessive passion, fed by rage, leads to Medea to do uncalled for acts of violence and murder. Medea kills Jason's uncle in lolcos for the reason that she wanted Jason to be the ruler. The murder of the princess of Corinth is another example of Medea's rage. Her passion drove her to poison clothing and send it to the princess. Not only is Medea proud that she killed her, but when the messenger tells her of the death of the princess, Medea responds by saying, ...But take your time now; tell me, how did they die? You'll give me double pleasure if their death was horrible (52). Also, the Nurse acknowledges Medea's rage. While in conversation with the tutor she says, She'll not relax her rage till it has found its victim (20). This proves to be true since Medea does not give up until she has made Jason miserable. These acts of murder show the wrath of Medea's rage. 
In conclusion, Medea's fatal flaw of excessive passion is due to the three main reasons of her love for Jason, her selfishness, and her rage. These factors all contributed to the downfall of Medea's character.

Every man put on trial is considered innocent until proven guilty. In 12 Angry Men this theory can almost be considered false to the jurors involved in this murder case. But one man can be credited with sticking to the innocent until proven guilty theory that most likely saved a man&#8217;s life. This juror must show 11 other jurors that he can prove with enough valid evidence that this boy is be wrongfully accused of killing his father. Reginald Rose shows us how that one mans integrity can prove to make a big difference in a kid&#8217;s life.
Juror #8 can be credited with saving someone&#8217;s life. Under intense and hostile scrutiny juror #8 is the only juror to vote not guilty on the stabbing death of a boy&#8217;s father. #8 doesn&#8217;t believe straight out that this boy is innocent of this crime. #8 believes that it would wrong to send a boy off to be executed without discussing it first. 
Jurors #3 and #10 are the most hostile of the jurors. They believe deep down that this boy killed his father. They believe that everything they heard in the courtroom holds true and they don&#8217;t really want to see this kid live any longer. Juror #8 still had reasonable doubt about the murder. He doesn&#8217;t want to vote guilty until he has enough evidence that this boy did indeed kill his father. 
Many different points are made about the boy who supposedly stabbed his father, that are cross examined well by juror #8 who still stands alone at not guilty. All of the evidence that the 11 jurors found contains flaws in them. For instance the woman who supposedly witnessed the stabbing wasn&#8217;t wearing her glasses. Also the stab wound in the boys father was made so that a taller man or boy could have made that type of wound with a switchblade knife. When these key pieces of evidence becomes clearer to the 11 jurors we start to see jurors questioning there own guilty vote. #9 is the second juror to vote guilty, because he too has some reasonable doubt. As more evidence is put on the table the 12 jurors come together and decide that this boy is innocent. 
In conclusion, juror #8 believes that every person is innocent until proven guilty. He was given many pieces of key evidence that showed this boys guilt but the evidence was examined carefully, and as more evidence was put out more jurors believed this boy was indeed innocent bringing them all together to believe this boys innocence

The sun was setting. Far to the east, threatening black clouds arose
from the fumes of pollution from the several smoke stacks towering over the
city. The streets were pock marked and dented with the recent shower of
acid rain. Hot boiling steam from the sewers made the temperature of day
much hotter than it really was. Just outside the borders of the city is a
lake covered with muck and crude oil spills. Death and despair floated
aimlessly on the surface of the unhospitable body of water. Corpses of dead
fish, seagulls... bobbed just under the rim of the black slime. The black
slime sensing fresh prey, extended it's corrupt and revolting tendrils
farther...until it caught another unsuspecting victim, choking and
engulfing, destroying, leaving just another emtpy shell behind, devoid of
any life.
Night set in, the stars were obscured by thick blankets of smoke. The
day was done. Stores got ready to lock up and street lights were turned on
to aid the bread winners, so they may travel safely. Few were fortunate
enough to own automobiles so they could avoid the cold dangerous streets
and dark alleyways. Most shops were already abandoned, finished for the
day. Yet few doors were still open, desperate for any last minute
customers. One such shopkeeper was Phil Anderson. Anderson had worked as
a pharmacist for most of his life. At forty, he had little to show for.
The pollution that caused the gradual decay of the city had had negative
effects on business, as well as the environment. Phil, though by all means
not an old man, showed signs of premature aging. His skin was pale and
dry, wrinkled by the everyday punishment of the deteriorating sorroundings.
Few strands of grayish white hair lined his almost bald, dandruff infested
scalp. Looking at Phil with his characteristic limp, slouched posture and
bulging belly one might think him an extremely unathletic person. But then
again it was not entirely his fault. His eyes were red and bloodshot, the
glasses he wore only made these features more obvious.
With shaking skinny hands, Phil slowly put away the last of the items
on top of the counter. Finally done, he flicked off the lights and
rummaged through his pockets for his keys. Looking one last time to make
sure the shop was in order, Phil locked up the store and left. He failed t
o notice a dark shadow spying on him as he counted the bills he had earned
today, and put it away into his black leather wallet. The tall dark figure
studied the pharmacist a while longer before trailing him. The narrow
dirty street smelled of weeks old garbage and animal wastes. Smog was
still thick in the air causing him to cough repeatedly. He stopped for a
moment to catch his breath. Remembering his air filter in his pocket, Phil
gingerly took it out and put it on. Feeling much better Phil continued
down the street, heaving a sigh of relief.


Barrett
Great Books 1
Dr. Carcache
11 December 2000
The Pardoner's Tale: Deception and Foolishness
There are several types of foolishness being described in the Pardoner's Tale itself. He describes gluttony in general, then specifically wine. He talks of gambling, taking bets and the like, and of swearing. The beginning of his tale describes three fools who go foolishly seeking death, then find it in a large amount of gold. Deception is another topic addressed by the Pardoner. He comes right out and says he is a con artist, and that he is out to take people's money. In his tale, deception by the rioters leads to the death of all three. These are good points, but there is another deception the Pardoner plays, and gets caught. His tale is a direct chastisement of the host, Harry Bailey, who is not pleased by this. As a whole, Chaucer effectively uses this character of the Pardoner to point out some of the more foolish and deceptive aspects of other characters in the tales as well. 
In the beginning, the narrator describes the Pardoner in some quite undesirable terms. The Pardoner represents the ugly truth. The Knight is grand, the Wife is pretty, but the Pardoner is downright ugly. He is also the only pilgrim to acknowledge his shortcomings. He knows he is a con artist and a liar, and in his tale's prologue he freely admits this in both words and actions. The Pardoner then proceeds with the tale itself, which is a deception as well. In his tale he describes gluttony in detail and defines it as not just overeating, but the intense pleasure of doing so. He also denounces wine with graphic examples of drunkenness. He discusses the negative merits of swearing and cursing. Then, he closes the tale itself with a condemnation of gambling.
There are several things going on here. The first, and most obvious hypocrisy is before telling this tale, the Pardoner insisted on stopping at an inn for food and beer. He is also a participant in a bet: he who tells the best story wins. However, there is another level. This tale is a retaliation against the host, who just before asking the Pardoner to speak had been cursing and talking about using beer as medicine to mend his broken heart. It can be suspected that the host is drunk, as well. Several things from the tale upset the host. He is the owner of a tavern, encouraging food and drink. He himself likes to partake of these things. He also swears often, and from the General Prologue, we know the host was the one to propose the storytelling game in the first place. So, at the end of the Pardoner's Tale, when the Pardoner suggests, …our Host shall begin, for he’s the man enveloped most by sin (1585.457-458), it is in direct response to the insult the host made at the beginning of the Pardoner’s tale. This nearly starts a physical fight, but the Knight steps in to stop any further confrontation. The Pardoner's tale may have been aimed at the host, but it also describes much of the rest of the pilgrimage. After all, the group met at a tavern, they agreed to this storytelling game or bet, and some of them have been drunk for much of the trip thus far. Indeed, the sins listed in the tale do seem to apply to most of the characters. In this way, he seems to be telling the truth in some way in regards to everyone. The Prioress and Monk like their food, the Miller likes his ale, the Wife of Bath likes her money, and so on. What sets him aside is he does admit this himself. He admits in his Prologue to being a con artist and always willing to have a drink. 
The Pardoner is possibly the epitome of the “ugly truth” about people. Truth is sexless and has some charming characteristics, but when used as a reflection of one's self, most people do not like what they see. The Pardoner offers his listeners a chance to redeem themselves. Not through his relics, but by acknowledging these undesirable aspects in their own selves. It seems at the end of his tale the Pardoner is hawking his relics as redemption, even though he knows they are fake. He also realizes everyone else knows they are fake. Did he forget this fact? It does not seem reasonable for a person so quick of wit (as evidenced in the introduction to The Pardoner's Tale) should forget so suddenly. It does make sense, however, for him to use this opportunity to thumb his nose. Not only does he thumb his nose at the host, but also to everyone else. This passage is very cynical, as when the Pardoner offers to give pardons as they ride; …have a new, fresh pardon if you like at the end of every mile of road we strike… (1585.444-445). If the other travelers fall for his relics trick, they are fools. A fool and his money are easily parted (thus bringing up the Pardoner’s tendency to be a con artist). Does the Pardoner as a character know this? In his prologue, he offers just enough information to allow him to use his wits and speech to attack a person in his tale who has offended him earlier in the journey. The Pardoner is not an example of what a good person should be, and he knows this. While he preaches salvation and redemption, he is honest with the group about being in it for the perks. What sets him aside from the other pilgrims and their tales is he knows and admits this. He is a scoundrel, he is a con artist, and he is a thief of sorts. No one likes him and he finds it hard to like himself. In his Prologue, he makes it clear that his intention, when preaching to the masses, is to win money. He intentionally tells stories to emphasize money as the root of all evil (Radix malorum est cupiditas), and his tale shows this trait well. Since he has already told them his secret, this tale is for their enjoyment, and to satisfy his part of the bet. 
The story he tells of the rioters and Death is interesting to analyze as well. It is fairly easy to remember the plot and the consequences. It emphasizes making and breaking promises, greed, ill will towards others, and the consequences of these actions. The Pardoner's reason for using this story is to encourage ignorant people to not want their money. After the story, he gives them the opportunity to not just get rid of it, but to get something else as well--absolution for their sins. Regardless of his intentions, he must occasionally accomplish a good work, but he really doesn't care. He's in it for the money. 
Chaucer has created in the Pardoner a very complicated character. He is ugly, honest to the point of being rude, sensitive to insult but not empathic, very intelligent, and well aware of his situation. The Pardoner knows he would be a common laborer without those papal bulls. He knows the text he is preaching and is aware of its effects on the uneducated, but he doesn't believe it. He preaches salvation and redemption, but sees through it. He can offer his relics to the masses, but who pardons the Pardoner? In many ways he is a very modern character--disillusioned with religion, using what means he has to make as much money as he can, trying to attain a higher rank in life. Sounds to me like how a lot of us act (me included) much of the time.

The Jungle by Upton Sinclair
Upton Sinclair's The Jungle is the tale of a Lithuanian immigrant, Jurgis Rudkus, and his family. Jurgis and his family move to the United States in the middle of the Industrial Revolution, only to find themselves ill-equipped for the transition in the workplace and in society in general. Jurgis faces countless social injustices, and through a series of such interactions, the theme of the book is revealed: the support of socialism over capitalism as an economic and social structure.
Jurgis learns soon after transplanting his family that he alone cannot earn enough to support his entire family, in spite of the intensity of his valiant efforts to work harder. Soon his wife and the rest of his family are working as well, all attempting to chip in to cover family expenses. However, such exposure proves itself to be too dangerous and detrimental to the Rudkuses. Jurgis becomes hardened by his negative experiences as he realizes that, in a capitalist society like the one he was living in, there is no justice. Hard work is not justly rewarded, and often times corruption is rewarded in its place. Through and through, he sees that capitalist life is not fair. Soon he is injured on the job and is forced to stay home and out of work while his mangled foot heals.
Jurgis is sidelined from work for two months, and upon his return he finds himself replaced by another worker. Desperate for a job, he takes a dreaded position at the glue factory. Hi wife is pregnant, his family is working themselves to the breaking point, and the bills are getting the best of them. Jurgis turns to drinking. Things get worse. He learns that his wife has been forced to have sex with her boss. Jurgis, in a rage, attacks the man at the Packing house and is arrested for battery. He spends a month in jail, at which time he meets Jack Duane, a character who introduces him to the easy life: a life of crime. Within a month of the time Jurgis gets out of jail, everyone has lost their jobs and the house they struggled so hard to keep is lost.
Soon Ona is having a child, and because of the lack of funds to pay for proper care for her, both she and the child die in labor. His son drowns, many family members have died and the remainder are scattered with no semblance of the family they once were. Jurgis takes to the country to become a tramp, but as winter approaches he knows he must return to the city - to the jungle - once again.
Jurgis becomes a beggar and a vagrant. After receiving $100 dollars from Freddie Jones, the son of rich Old Man Jones, he goes into a bar to get change and gets into another altercation, this time with the bartender, and is again arrested. Soon he turns to Jack Duane to enter the life of crime he had foreshadowed. Isolated from any remainders of his family, he begins to live the easy life of shortcuts and crooked paths. However, another chance encounter with Connor, his wife's boss and seducer, brings out his true self again, the man who stands up for his moral convictions, even when it harms him to do so. After beating the man again, he is arrested and jumps bail. By pure luck he wanders into a socialist meeting while looking for food and/or a place to sleep. There his life begins a change in earnest.
He learns at that meeting what the working class can do to make a difference. Soon after he reunites with his daughter, Marjia, a drug-addicted prostitue struggling to support the family's remains. The story closes with a happy socialist ending: Jurgis gets a job at a hotel run by socialists and seals his fate. He goes on to become an avid socialist and he, the fighter, and Marjia, the victim, pick up the pieces of their lives to make everything better.
I feel that this book is a ridiculously oversimplified look at socialism and a very sinister look at capitalism. While I applaud Sinclair's efforts to illustrate the injustices of capitalism, socialism does not hold the simple solution to everything like it seemingly did for Jurgis in The Jungle. In truth, corruption can be found in any and every type of economic and social-political structure in existence ever throughout history and in the future. A solution to this problem? I can't answer that one, but I know this much: socialism is not the easy answer he makes it out to be.

The Old Man and the Sea is a heroic tale of man's strength pitted against forces he cannot control. It is a story about an old Cuban fisherman and his three-day battle with a giant Marlin. Through the use of three prominent themes; friendship, bravery, and Christianity; the Old Man and the Sea strives to teach important life lessons to the reader while also epitomizing Santiago, the old fisherman, as a Hemingway code hero.
The relationship between Santiago and the boy is introduced early in the story. They are unlikely companions; one is old and the other young, yet they share an insuperable amount of respect and loyalty for each other. Santiago does not treat Manolin as a young boy but rather as an equal. Age is not a factor in their relationship. Manolin does not even act as a young boy; he is mature and sensitive to Santiago's feelings. He even offers to disobey his parents and accompany Santiago on his fishing trips. Santiago is viewed as an outcast in his village because he has not caught any fish for more than eighty-four days and is therefore unlucky. Nonetheless Manolin is loyal to Santiago and even when his parents forbid him he wants to help his friend. Their conversations are comfortable, like that of two friends who have known each other for a long time. When they speak it is usually about baseball or fishing, the two things they have most in common. Their favorite team is the Yankees and Santiago never loses faith in them even when the star player, Joe DiMaggio is injured with a heel spur. In this way Santiago not only teaches Manolin about fishing but also about important characteristics such as faith. 
In the story Santiago's bravery is unsurpassed but it is not until he hooks the great fish that we truly see his valor and perseverance. Through Santiago's actions Hemingway teaches the reader about bravery and tenacity in the face of adversity. He demonstrates that even when all is lost and seems hopeless a faith and willful heart will overcome anything. Santiago had lost his luckiness and therefore the respect of his village. Through the description of his cabin we also suspect that Santiago is a widower. Although Santiago has had many troubles he perseveres. He has faith in Manolin, in the Yankees, in Joe DiMaggio, and most importantly in himself. This is perhaps his greatest attribute because without it he would never have had the strength to persevere and defeat the giant Marlin. 
Faith is not the only thing that drives his perseverance. Santiago also draws upon his past victories for strength. After he hooks the Marlin he frequently recalls his battle with a native in what he calls the hand game. It is not just an arm wrestling victory for him it is a reminder of his youthful days. His recollections of this event usually proceed a favorite dream of his in which he sees many lions on a peaceful shore. These lions represent him when he is young and strong and could overcome any challenge. Although he is an old man and his body is no longer like it used to be his heart is still great and he eventually defeats the Marlin. Santiago's perseverance and bravery are further illustrated when he tries to fight off the sharks. He was a fisherman all his life and therefore he knows that the fate of his catch is inevitable yet he persists to fight the sharks. The battle between him and the sharks is about principles not a mere fish. Santiago is still a great warrior at heart and warriors fight until the end. 
One of the greatest and most obvious pieces of symbolism in the story is Christianity. From the beginning of the story the reader is shown a unique relationship between Santiago and Manolin. Their relationship parallels that of Christ and his disciples. Manolin is Santiago's disciple and Santiago teaches Manolin about fishing and life. One of the greatest lessons that Santiago gives is that of a simple faith. Have faith in the Yankees my son. This type of faith reflects the basic principles of Christianity. 
Hemingway's description of Santiago further illustrates Christian symbolism. Hemingway gives a reference to the nail-pierced hands of Christ by stating that Santiago's hands had deep creased scars. Hemingway also parallels Santiago's suffering to that of Christ by stating that he settled …against the wood and took his suffering as it came. Even more profound is the description of Santiago's response when he saw the sharks, just a noise such a man might make, involuntarily feeling the nail go through his hands and into the wood. (Page 107) Further symbolism is shown when Santiago arrives home and carries the mast across his shoulders as Christ carried the cross to Calvary. Also, like Christ, Santiago could not bare the weight and collapsed on the road. When he finally reached his cabin he slept face down on the newspapers with his arms out straight and the palms of his hands up. (Page 122) Hemingway puts these themes together in such a way that they do not conflict with each other. He does allow Christianity to be a more dominant theme than the other but instead makes it more symbolic than intentional. He does not smother the relationship between the old man and the young boy but instead separates them for a large part of the story. Finally, he does not make Santiago's bravery a central them by highlighting his weaknesses. In the end the old mans perseverance and faith pay off. He finally gains the respect of the village and succeeds in teaching Manolin the lessons of faith and bravery.
In Ernest Hemingway's The Old Man and the Sea, one will find many examples in which the main character, Santiago, surpasses many hardships while being courageous, brave, and being a friend. Each of these: courage, bravery, and friendship, are qualities in a Hemingway code hero.

Trouble River
Author: Betsy Byars
It was a cool summer evening, and Dewey's grandmother sat in her rocking chair on the porch. She was thinking to herself its getting dark I better call that boy in. So she got up form her chair and called Deweeee Deweeee. There was no answer so she decided to go get him herself. She walked down to the woods edge and called for him once again. Dewey answered, then Dewey and his dog came running back up the hill. Then together then they walked back to the house. When in the house Dewey's grandmother asked him what he was doing down there in the woods. He reluctantly told her he was building a raft cause he knew she would disagree with him doing that.
That night Dewey was planning on sneaking out to work on his raft. So later that night he walked over to the door pulled up the bar, and went out to the river. From the river he had a clear view of the house. While down at the river he kept making sure he was keeping an eye on the door, since it wasn't barred shut. Then after a little time passed Dewey noticed there was a man slowly creeping up to the house. Dewey could see it was an Indian. So Dewey and his dog ran up the hill, and tried to creep up to the house. When the Indian was about to open the door, Dewey knew he couldn't let the Indian get inside. So Dewey and his dog went running up to the house. Dewey's dog bit the Indian and hung on to his skin the Indian shook him wildly till he fell off. The Indian whacked the dog on the back of his leg with his hatchet then the Indian ran away.
Dewey ran inside and got his grandmother telling her that he had seen an Indian. She said there is never just one Indian there is always a group. She said they were gonna die if they didn't get out of there. So Dewey said I have an idea instead of staying here and getting scalped lets go down to the river and ride my raft down river. We can get out at the Dargans house then we can wait there and meet up with his ma and pa before they come back from the city. She was very hesitant but she finally agreed they got all their important possessions and set out for the river.
When she got to the bank she was surprised how small the boat was. So they got aboard and Dewey started paddeling away from the bank. They both knew it would be a long time till they got to the Dargans place so they sat down and started on their way. The next day in the late afternoon they decided to stop and get off the raft to take a rest. So Dewey pushed the raft to the side till they struck bottom. Then they got out and put a blanket down where they sat and ate a meal of cornmeal and water. After a long nap, they got up and were ready to board the boat when they heard a wolf coming form the brush. It wasn't just one it was a pack. So Dewey picked up the gun fired one shot then ran to the boat. Once they were both on the boat they started back on their trip. 
Then the next morning they saw the Dargans chimney standing high on the hill. After pulling themselves to shore Dewey ran up to the house but when he got there, there was nothing but a pile of ashes. The house had been burned to the ground all that was left was the stone fireplace. So Dewey ran back to the raft and told his grandmother that the Indians had already gotten to them and burned down the house. So they decided to ride the rest of the river out to Hunter City.
The next morning Dewey awoke and heard a strange noise his grandmother heard it to. They both knew there was a bunch of rapids upahead. Then once they hit the turn they saw big rapids. They floated in the rapids and were thrown around. Dewey grabbed his dog and held on to him for safety. Dewey started to scream he tasted blood in his mouth because he got a bloody lip. Finally when the rapids were done the water calmed down and they yelled up to the bank for help. Two men came running to the bank to help them. Then they through them a rope and pulled them to shore Once they got to shore they asked if they had seen the Martins. They said, yes there right up ahead, why? They said cause were there grandma and son. So Dewey and his grandmother went ahead and met up with the parents who were coming back from Hunter City and rode the rest of the way home in the wagon. On the way home they explained they crazy ride down Trouble River.

October 06. 1999
Dear Diary,
What an excellent way to start off mt 13th birthday, my dog got ran over by a car! To make it better it was my own mother that did it. He was my only true friend, the only one that I really loved and cared for, and now he is dead.
I hate my over-weight, hard-ball of a mother! It was her fault, all her fault! I don't blame her for not letting me have any friends over, she to ashamed of herself! And, I hate to say this but I am ashamed of her to. If people really knew what she was like, they would be ashamed too. She knew the only real friend I ever had was my cute little dog Marshall, and then she turns around and killed him! I HATE HER! I HATE HER!!! How could she be so careless, how could have she not seen him, he isn't that small. 
I don't know what I'm going to do without Marshall. How will I ever get along.?? I'll certainly miss waking up every morning, and seeing him standing on his hind legs at the foot of my bed, with his front paws braced against the side, starring at me with his big brown eyes. I can remember that his stubby tail would thump back and forth, and he lean his head over and lick my face and neck, with his warm rough thong. Boy did I love that dog, I'm going to miss him so much. I'll never find a friend quite like him, he is irreplaceable. 
Marshall didn't care about the way that I looked, whether or not I was smart or stupid, or even about the guys that I messed around with,( which is why my ape of a father resents me.) He never once put me down like everyone else. He loved me, and now he's gone, and it's all because of my mother!!
I'm going to miss Marshall, but I know that I will never see him again, thanks to my selfish mother who let him run free while I was at school. She knew how much he loved to chase car. He always did do it, ever since he was a little puppy. But of course she didn't care. I'm never going to forgive her for this, NEVER!!
Chrissie
October 08th 1999
Dear Diary,
I no longer care what I do, my own father calls me a sl**, so why shouldn't I live up to his accusations?? Just last night, I went out and did exactly what he expected me to do. I'm sick of him calling me a sl**, and everything else in the book, when I hardly even does anything. I hope that he's happy now, that I gotten into drugs and I'm trying to drown out my problems in booze, that should make him really proud. 
Oh, sometimes I wish that I was dead, so all my problems go away, and I could be myself and next get lectured on it. It not like anyone would care anyway.. Mom is too absorbed in her own selfishness, and Dad, he's just off in his own little world. The both of them don't even know that I'm alive, except when it come time to bi*** at me for something that I did. Nobody cares for me except for a few idiots that only want one thing sex!
Sometimes I even wonder, why should I even care. It's not like I'm going to be anything when I grows up. My school grades are falling and I'm almost positive that I will have to take the grade 7 over again. That's going to be fun, that will make Dad even more happy with his little girl. 
I just don't know what to do! Nobody cares about me so why should I!!
Chrissie 
October 10th 1999
Dear Diary, 
My house has turned into a was zone!! Ever since my 13th birthday, nothing has been the same. Whenever I return home from somewhere, Mom barricades herself in her bed room, and Dad prepares an attack. We never avoid each other's territory, because that would mean victory for te other. Our regular routine is tossing a few verbal bombs at each other when our paths cross, and all this fighting ends with them labeling me as a sl**, and me calling them the worse parents!
I'm sick and tired of all this, I think the best way out is for me to either to run away from this place, or take my away life and make everyone happy! It seems like the only logic way out of things!
Chrissie
October 12th 1999
Dear Diary,
What a wicked party last night!! It was so much fun, there was nothing big that happened, just the same old stuff, drugs, booze and you know what!! The guys that were there were all over me, they seemed pretty happy when they all got what they wanted. I mush have slept with three guys last night. 
God, why do I have to be this way, why can't I be like all the other girls, and get decent guys that what a relationship, not just sex?? I can't do anything right, I wish everything was different!! 
Chrisse
October 16th 1999
Dear Diary,
You never guess what happened to me? It just made my life so much better, I just received a call from the hospital, and they told me that I am infected with the HIV virus. It all started with the first guy that I slept with Jamie Thomson. It only happened once, but then I kept doing it, more and more, except with everyone else. Nothing should make a difference to me know. Why shouldn't I live up to all the names that my father calls me! I went to the hospital on Saturday, with my boyfriend Jesse , he came to give me moral support. We were both really scared, so I made up a false age and name It's not that hard to do this, because I look much older than I really am. I really fooled the doctors when I said that I was Amy Jefferson, age 18!
How could I have let myself.... or let me father have so much control over my thoughts and actions. It's all his fault!! I hate him, I'm going to die because of him. I wish he would have this cursive disease, not me. I'm only 13, I don't want to die. It's going to be so embarrassing having to phone all those guys, explaining to them that I have HIV's and that they should go get tested. It is mine as well if I was dead!! I'm going to die anyway!! That's it! I'm going to get this over and done with now. !! I'm going to do it tonight, and I'll make it look like nothing happened. I'll make it look like I ran away, when really I'm on he bottom of some cliff out side of town. They probably won't even know that I'm missing, until someone finds my body. I hate my life all the hating is going to end tonight!!
Lost, and confused
Chrissie 
Chrissie

White Oleander, a dramatic fiction by Janet Fitch, was published by Little, Brown and Company in Boston. The story is about a mother and daughter, Ingred and Astrid have a very unusual relationship. Ingred loves her daughter but never asks her what she thinks so therefore doesn't know her daughter too well. Such as she does not know of her daughter's yearning for a father. 
Ingred makes it very clear that she will not allow herself to get close to a man. She is a very brilliant, beautiful poet, who is adored by a man named Barry Kolker. He goes to all of her readings, and asks her out each time. One of the times Barry invites her to go to the Gamelan, an orchestra. Loving the Gamelan, she accepts. Her and Astrid join Barry, and they begin talking more. They start going out more, but each time she makes and stands by regulations, such as he will invite her to eat after an event where they had not planned on eating and she will refuse, because she doesn't like to get attached to men, and doesn't want to spend anymore time than she had already allotted. 
All of a sudden, her rules start diminishing. One time, there was a knock at her door, and it was Barry. She thought to herself, 'how dare he just come without an invitation?'. When she opened the door (a knife in her hand), he had a bottle of wine, and bag of something that smelled good. To Astrid's surprise she did something least expected. She invited him in. One night Barry said he would be over to her house at 9 and never showed. So the next day, Ingred showed up unannounced at Barry's and she went inside and they made love. Immediately after, he told Ingred she had to leave because he had a date coming. She wanted to seek revenge. She started showing up at every place he was at. She broke into his house. He tried to go to her house and make her stop the nonsense. He tried forcing his way in her house, and she stabbed him in the hand. He left, and the next day she went to his house, where she found he had changed the locks. She broke in and placed white oleanders in his milk, oyster sauce and cottage cheese, and one in his toothpaste. She made an arrangement of white oleanders on his table, and scattered blooms on his bed. A police officer came to Ingred's house, and told her that Barry is accusing her of breaking and entering, and trying to poison him. She calmly stated that Barry is angry with her. She broke up with him and that he couldn't get over her. Ingred and Astrid took trip to Tijuana and Ingred bought a bottle of medicine called, DMSO, which helps drugs absorb through your skin (DMSO helps nicotine patches work), and uses that to poison him. He dies. Ingred is eventually placed in jail, leaving Astrid to jump from foster home to foster home. 
Her first foster home is with a mother named Star. Star is a busty, and leggy, ex-coke addict turned Christian. Star has a boyfriend named Ray, and Astrid falls in love with him. Astrid, 13, has an affair with the 40-something Ray. Star gets jealous of their friendship and gets suspicious. One day, Star comes in, in a drunken rage and shoots Astrid. Astrid is immediately removed and placed in a second home, the home of Ed and Marble Turlock. At this home, she was treated like a slave. She was forced to clean and baby-sit, and was never shown any affection, and was never introduced to anyone. Astrid makes friends with a black neighbor, named Olivia Johnston, who the prejudiced Marble condemns a hooker. When Marble finds that Astrid is friends with her, Marble beats her up, and she once again gets moved, which she finds out at school, with her bags already packed for her, and no chance to say good-byes. 
The third house, was a big, beautiful estate. Amelia, the foster mother took in girls as slaves, and when she would leave, she would lock the refrigerator, and there was only one phone which no one could use. Astrid was starving, and began digging through the trash cans at school, when someone caught her and made fun of her, she stopped going to school. She started pan handling at liquor stores so she could get change to call her case worker to tell her what had been happening. She finally got a hold of her and was removed from that home.
She is then sent to the home of Claire and Ron. Claire couldn't have children and loved Astrid as her own. She was behind Astrid all the way with her goals, like drawing and painting. Claire, however, had psychiatric depression and suspected Ron of cheating on her. It got too hard on Claire, and she committed suicide. This had been the longest time Astrid had been in a home. Ron had a business and it had been his idea to adopt Astrid, so that Claire wouldn't be lonely. When Claire killed herself, Ron couldn't take care of her. 
She was sent to to a shelter where she meets a guy named Adam and they become good friends. She gets adopted by a woman named Reina where there are no rules, but a very dysfunctional house, where, they would drink and do drugs, which Astrid begins to do, too. For survival, Reina and the girls collect and sell belongings like an everyday yard sale. Throughout this time, Astrid keeps in touch with Adam. She turns 18 and decides to leave. She moves in with Adam in New York, and they fall in love. Astrid learns to forgive her mother, and she finally is getting to have a normal life, and put the past behind her.
This is an extremely well written book, that will leave you feeling the same emotions as Astrid, from confusion, to terror, to despair, and finally to a restored feeling of hope. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes good dramas. This book is a real page-turner, which leaves you wondering what is going to happen next.

WHAT THE DOCTOR ORDERED
Life is a rat race. In order to succeed, one is required to stay in the front of the pack. To lead a happy, loving life, however, one must stop and smell the roses so the meaningful qualities in life don't pass you by. A prime example of a person who overlooks this aspect of life can be found in Mary Shelley's Frankenstein. Through Dr. Frankenstein, Shelley warns readers of the consequences of playing god and allowing business to take you away from the simple pleasures in life. As shown through him, too much knowledge and determination may not be what the doctor ordered. 
Frankenstein illustrates god-like characteristics by creating a living creature. As a boy he was deeply smitten with the thirst for knowledge (22), and obtained an eager desire to learn (23). This dedication and love for science he pursued led him to crave more and strive to go one step further than other scientists have in the past. Devoting his life to learning the sciences of the human frame, Frankenstein became capable of bestowing animation upon lifeless matter (37), and recognizes the chance to become the father of a new type of species he can take credit for. Ironically, Frankenstein's creature obtains the power to destroy his creator, along with all civilization. If God, the single perfect being, cannot create perfect life, how could an imperfect person possibly do it? Frankenstein is oblivious to the danger of his knowledge and to the citadel of nature (25) he will enter by becoming aware of the secrets of heaven and earth (23). Frankenstein travels down a dangerous path when he goes as far as to play God by exploring supernatural life and after his work is complete, he fearfully realizes that he not only created a new life, but with that life, he brought a new form of evil into the world.
During the two years Frankenstein worked on his creation he became totally absorbed in his work which leads to neglect towards himself, his family, and the beautiful scenes of nature he, in the past, took pleasure in. Once he dived headfirst into his project, he showed no signs of coming up for air. Frankenstein puts his life on hold and seemed to have lost all soul or sensation but for this one pursuit (39). In fear of an unsuccessful outcome, he ruthlessly works day and night trying to complete his work. In the process, he deprived [himself] of rest and health (42) and became pale and emaciated due to this lacking. Not only did he neglect his health, Frankenstein also overlooked his loving family who began to worry about him. Obviously [he] knew [his] silence disquieted them (40), but couldn't tear himself away from his work long enough to simply reply to their letters. Another pleasure Frankenstein tried to forget was the nature he had always found comfort in. However, not even the charms of nature (40) could break the force field isolating Frankenstein and his creation in the study. Once he realized all the pleasures he set aside due to the overwhelming desire he beheld for his work, Frankenstein began making excuses. He made himself believe that the passion and peace he felt towards his family and the beauties of nature stood as an obstacle in his path and would only disturb his tranquility (40). When you give up the things you love and the aspects of life that have always given pleasure to you, you risk losing them forever. Frankenstein became so caught up in his work he missed out on two years of his life. He never visited his family and it wasn't until after his work was done did he read a letter sent to him by Elizabeth updating him on everything that had gone on. After Frankenstein is aware of the monster he produced, he understands all he gave up and now regrets what he allowed his life to become.
Getting caught up in the rat race led Dr. Victor Frankenstein to the terrible fate like had in store for him. All too late, he realizes that a truly happy man never losses sight of the important aspects he beholds. Also, understanding how dangerous the acquirement of knowledge (38) is and how his desire to go beyond the laws of nature led to the downfall of his life. It isn't until misery and destruction claim his soul does Frankenstein realize the problems he created by playing God and overlooking the simple pleasures in life. 

If you like books like The Firm or The Chamber then this is the book for you. It has a great mix of suspense, action and drama. Its about a young man named Rudy Baylor who had aspirations of breezing through law school, graduating, and having a rich and prosperous future waiting for him. But after graduating the company that had hired him as a student was forced into a merger and the new owners don’t want to have anything to do with him. It looks as if the whole world is crashing down on him, except for one case, one chance to pull himself away from being just another sleazy lawyer taking garbage cases that fall like scraps from the corporate bigshot’s tables. Its an insurance dispute that has left a family broken and devastated and has also opened the door for a lawsuit, if only Rudy can find a licensed lawyer to file it for him. When he finally gets to court he finds himself face to face with Drummond, the leader of a big time corporate defense team. He’s thrown into a nightmare of lies and cover-ups that have hung like a dark cloud over Great Benefits, the insurance company being sued. What started as a small dispute is quickly expanding into a million dollar legal war with the most trusted and respected insurance company in America. Its a case that puts Rudy in great danger, but if he wins he would be the most popular lawyer in America.
“I go to my apartment to load the last of my things into the car. The cleaning service was in yesterday so the house is temporarily without the smell of mildew. Its ready for Miss Birdie. I write Miss Birdie a long letter promising to call. Check the house once again and drive to a branch bank and close my savings account. A stack of 28 one hundred dollar bills has a nice feel to it, I hide it under the floor-mat. Its almost dark when I knock on the Blacks’s front door. Dot opens it, and almost smiles when she sees its me. The house is dark and quiet, still very much in mourning. I doubt if it will ever change. Buddy’s in bed with the flue. Over instant coffee I gently break the news that Great Benefits has gone belly up, and that she’s been shafted once more. Barring a miracle far off in the distance, we wont get a dime. 
Continued on the next page...
I’m not surprised at her reaction. There appear to be several complex reasons for great benefits death. But right now its important for Dot to think that she pulled the trigger. Her eyes gleam and her entire face seems happy as it sinks in. She put them out of business. One little, determined woman from Memphis Tennessee bankrupted them “sons of bitches.” 
She’ll go to Donnie Ray’s grave tomorrow and tell him about it. Kelly is waiting anxiously at Robin’s when I pull up. We hold hands as we walk quickly to the car, and we drive away. “Dear, which direction?” I ask when we get to the interstate loop that circles the city. We laugh at this because it is so absolutely wonderful. It doesn’t matter where we go. “I’d like to see mountains” she says. “Me too, East or West?” “Big Mountains.” “Then West it is.” She cuddles closer and rests her head on my shoulder. We cross the river and enter Arkansas. The Memphis skyline fades behind us. Its amazing how little we’ve planned for this. Her bond was canceled at only three this afternoon. We’ll settle in a place where no on can find us. I don’t wanna hear about Deck and Bruiser. I don’t wanna hear about the fallout at Great Benefits. I don’t want Miss Birdie calling me for legal advice. I don’t wanna worry about Cliff’s death and everything related to it. Kelly and I will talk about it one of these days, but not any time soon. We’ll pick a small collage town because she wants to go to school. She’s only twenty, I’m still a kid myself. We’re unloading some serious baggage here and its time to have fun. 
I’d love to teach History in high school, it shouldn’t be hard to do, after all I have seven years of collage. I will not under any circumstances have anything whatsoever to do with the law. I will allow my license expire. I will not register to vote so they cant nail me for jury duty. I will never voluntarily set foot in another court room. We smile and giggle as the land flattens and the traffic lightens. Memphis is twenty miles behind us, I vow never to return.” 
This excerpt may seem a little excessive but I feel that it captures the true spirit of the character, Rudy Baylor. It was also my favorite part of the novel. No, not because it was the end, but because it kind of made me stop and think. About how a person can spend most of their lives thinking that something is right for them only to end up down the road realizing that is was the wrong decision. After all that Rudy went through to win the case, to beat the other lawyers and to stop a company that was doing wrong he was able to just give it all up. That was truly touching and what made the novel a unique experience. 


The Picture of Dorian Grey
This story is about wanting to stay young and not knowing the consequences of such a desire.
Everything starts out in Basil Hallward's studio. Basil is a painter that is obsessed with Dorian Grey, a young beautiful gentleman that catches everyone's eye. On this particular day, Basil is accompanied by Lord Henry, one of his close friends. Dorian posses for a portrait and then retires to the garden with Lord Henry. They talk about youth and its great importance, about how it shouldn't be taken for granted, etc. When the picture is finished, Dorian makes a simple wish. He asks for his picture to grow old instead of him.
Dorian keeps the picture and is fond of his new friend, Lord Henry. They go everywhere together and Henry teaches Dorian new things about life that he never knew existed.
Dorian falls in love with an actress from the lower sides of London. But after she messes up in one of her plays, he despises her and decides never to see her again. He goes home and realizes that his picture has changed, it had grown old. The next day he is told that the actress he used to admire had committed suicide. Dorian fells no sorrow and Lord Henry tells him to take it as if it were just part of a play, a tragic scene that had come to a dramatic end. He realizes that his stupid wish had come true, so he decides to hide the painting so no one else can see it.
As the years go by, people start to hate the once beloved Dorian Grey. Rumors are spread that he is a bad influence and that evil follows him wherever he goes. Many people don't believe that nonsense, and are still blown away by his ravaging good looks. They can't believe that such a handsome man can do such terrible things.
Then one night, Basil visits him. They have a chat about the reputation that Dorian is getting on the streets. Basil tells him that such affairs, as he had been known to be a part off, were bad for the soul. Dorian tells him he no longer has a soul, and decides to show him the picture he once had painted of him. The picture had become horrid, old, and had lost all the beauty it once possessed. Basil is amazed and can't believe his own eyes. Dorian becomes mad at him, he blames him for all that has happened in his life, for he was the one that started the whole thing. Dorian takes a knife and stabs his good friend to death.
The next day he gets rid of the body and of all the evidence that can link him to the murder. Dorian continues his life as if nothing had ever happened.
A couple of days later, he is confronted by James Vayne, the actress's brother, the one he had sent to her death 18 years before. He wants to kill him for what he had done, but his good looks and his young face save his life. 
Now everywhere he goes he is afraid of being killed, until one day he goes hunting with a friend, and they shoot Vayne by mistake. Dorian feels without troubles and decides to make good instead of evil. He goes home and stabs the painting that had caused him all this pain. A chilling cry is heard, and his servants enter the room. They find the picture hanging on the wall, as beautiful as it ever was, and their master lying dead on the floor. He had changed into an old horrid figure and was stabbed to death.
This book was an excellent choice because it had a very interesting way of looking at life. At the beginning I thought it would be the usual story, but then as the plot unwraps, one can't leave the book for a second. You always want to know what will happen to Dorian Grey. 
Grey is an amazing character, at the start he was just blooming like a flower, but under the influence of Lord Henry, he matures and becomes a creature of evil. He realizes his mistakes and wants to change them, but it is too late. 
This story shows us that you can't have everything forever, one has to live life as one is. Dorian tried to stay young forever and it brought him nothing but pain. We can't make such mistakes because we only live once, we have to take Dorian's example and make our lives better, and worth living.


Objective Summary:
The story is about a child's expectance of a family
life filled with love and comforts, which is contrast
with his real working class family life.
Subjective Evaluation:
Soto, back to his age of nine, dreamed to live in a
family life that was uncomplicated in its routine. In
reality, Soto lived in a working class family; he
tried to change his family to imitate the perfect
families he absorbed from television. I think many
people have done what Soto did to fulfill the dream of
a perfect family they wanted. I am not excluded from
this either.
I have an experience of attempting to change my
family life. It was one year later after my family
first came to the US in 1995. I learned many new
things in this country that I never knew in China, and
I appreciated some living styles in American culture.
As I tended to like the styles of American life, I
expected my family like them, too. The thing I wanted
my family to change was the cooking style. I hated to
cook Chinese dinner because it took so long to
prepare. There are four kinds of food which are
considered essential parts of Chinese dinner: rice,
soup, vegetable, and meat; they are usually cooked
separately. I was not the one who was good at
cooking in my family, but I did have to cook when I
came home earlier than my parents and two sisters
still at work. One day, when we were sitting together
at the dinning table for dinner, I suggested to my
family that we could have sandwiches and precooked
food from the supermarket as our dinner since many
American families do. My parents looked at me in
bewilderment. Son, you must be kidding, right?
Those sandwiches and precooked food do not give you
enough nutrition for growing up, my dad said. And
precooked food is not good for your health, my mother
kept on. My elder sisters showed no interest in my
idea. I grew frustrated from their reaction, but I
did not give up. Evening after evening, I kept
bringing up the idea at the dinning table. My mother
finally permitted me to make one American dinner for
the family. That day, I went to the supermarket to
buy bread, ham, and chicken soup right after school.
I planned on making ham sandwiches and chicken soup
for the dinner. The dinner was ready and served at
our usual dinnertime. My mother tasted a spoon of the
chicken soup and said, It tastes like brine, nothing
but salty. Why don't they put some shark fins in it?
She refused to have another spoon. My sisters only
had a small bite of their sandwiches and then put them
down; my father barely finished one. Even I could not
have another one after finishing two. That night, my
parents and sisters had instant noodle for dinner.
Such a result was out of my expectation, but I had to
accept it. From then on, the subject of changing
cooking style is never brought up to the family
conversation.
I think Soto had the same feeling as I did when he
found out that there was no way to change his family
to be the perfect family he expected. When he
realized that, he went out to look for work; being
different from him, I tried to bring up another
subject to the family conversation.

The Professor and the Madman, written by Simon Winchester, is a biography about the making of the Oxford English Dictionary. Winchester, who is an author, journalist, broadcaster and foreign correspondent, has written for many magazines and newspapers distributed worldwide. In an interview between Winchester and a host of C-SPAN, Winchester was asked where the idea for the book came, he replies “Well, it came to me in a rather bizarre way. I was reading a book on lexicography in the bath one morning, as one does, I suppose, just before breakfast, and it was a book--a wonderful book called Chasing The Sun by a man called Jonathan Green. And it had a reference--it said, `Readers will be familiar with the extraordinary story of Dr. W.C. Minor, an American lunatic murderer, who was a prodigiously energetic contributor to the OED.' And I remember sitting up in the bath, Archimedeslike, dripping and saying, `Well, I know nothing about this.'” Winchester’s main foundation for this book is to clarify the tale of the making of the Oxford English Dictionary
The formation of the Oxford English Dictionary began in 1857 and took seventy years to finish. Tens of thousands of individuals organized the expansive language into 414,825 exact definitions. The story begins with the grisly murder of George Merrett, by William Chester Minor the former U.S. Army officer and qualified surgeon. On February 17th of 1872 in the early morning William Minor had been sleeping, when he awoke to some “noises” of someone in his flat. He sat up and saw someone standing at the foot of his bed. He proceeded to chase the individual into the street, and shot at the “person” as they attempted to flee. He ended up shooting the first person that came into view apparently, and this person was George Merrett. Merrett had never met W.C Minor and had been heading home after a long day at work. W.C Minor was arrested. While in prison, he appeared to act exceptionally strange. One of the guards told the jury that Minor accused him of paying people to enter his room and molest him while he slept. This evidence clearly showed that W.C Minor was insane and was sent to the Asylum for the Criminally Insane, Broadmoore. The judge stated that he would remain there “until her Majesty’s Pleasure be known.”
Professor James Murray, an extraordinarily educated former schoolmaster and bank clerk, sent out an announcement about the making of the Oxford English Dictionary, asking for literary contributions. From his cell in Broadmoore, Minor came across this announcement and began contributing examples from his massive collection of new and scarce antique books. Minor had an enormous collection of books in his cell, which were not available to Murray and the staff, where the dictionary was being created. Thousand of neat and well-written quotes and examples came from Minor over several years to Oxford. Murray was only fifty miles away from where Minor was living, and had no idea that Minor was committed to an asylum. On several occasions Minor had been asked to visit Murray In Oxford, where they could meet and discuss the dictionary. Minor declined all invitations, without an explanation, and only an apology. After being rebuffed several times, Murray offered to visit Minor and Minor accepted the offer. Upon arrival Murray discovered that Minor was not a doctor of the asylum as he had assumed, but a resident.
Murray was shocked, but that didn’t dissuade him from visiting Minor. Although Minor constantly complained about people molesting him while he slept, people breaking into his room at night, and his personal possessions being vandalized Murray ignored the strange comments and went on with his visits. Minor’s stepbrother began writing appeals to the court, asking that his brother be allowed to transfer to a hospital in the United States. James Murray, who spent more than 40 years editing the dictionary, and up until 1910 wrote and visited Minor regularly, until Minor was released and allowed to go back to the U.S. On July 16th 1915 Murray died, surrounded by friends and relatives. In November 1915 Minor wrote to Lady Murray, offering all his books to the Scriptorium. On Friday March 26th 1920 Minor died from a cold that developed into bronchopneumonia. The English Oxford Dictionary took eight more years to be completed. On New Years Eve of 1927 its completion was announced.
The Professor and the madman is a wonderfully written biography. Before each chapter was a word that defined the whole chapter. Most of the book was in chronological order, except for the parts where the author backtracked in order to elaborate. The postscript and authors note gave a bit of insight on where he got his idea to write the book, and some of his resources. Unlike The Bluest Eye written by Toni Morrison, the diction was easy to follow, and storyline was far from depressing. Winchester was very straightforward, and turned a little known tale into a well-written and very compelling book.
I had my doubts about this particular book. I got this book, when the report was first assigned. I attempted to read, but found the first chapter dreadfully boring, and returned the book to the bookstore. I forgot about the report until I was reminded a week ago. I went to go and find a different book, but had no luck, so I bought the book again. I am glad that I did end up with this book. I enjoyed The Professor and the Madman immensely. I have no recollection of ever hearing about the authors of the Oxford English Dictionary. I told one of my friends about this book, and he asked if he could borrow it as soon as I finished using it for my report
<br><br><b>Bibliography</b><br><br>
Winchester, Simon. The Professor and the Madman. New York, N.Y. Harper Collins. 1998
Air date: November 8, 1998 on C-SPAN, and then transferred to the internet. www.booknotes.org/transcripts/50488.htm
A search for author information on Winchester produced this. http://shop.barnesandnoble.com/booksearch/authorInfo.asp?authorCode=208118&userid=2UHBJHVHUL&mscssid=EB4B5PL8R3SM9LB4KXAN43GBAGP60U5C

I read the novel Rising Sun by Michael Crichton. The story is about the grand opening of the Nakamoto Tower in Los Angeles, the new American headquarters of a Japanese corporation. On the night of the opening a young girl was killed on the forty-sixth floor, one story above the floor of the party. The Japanese liaison, Lieutenant Peter James Smith, was called to help the investigation begin, as the Japanese businessmen tried to stall the police. Though the story is about a homicide investigation, the underlying theme is one of business deals, both corrupt and proper. Throughout the book the reader is taken though the way of Japanese business, and quickly learns the differences between American companies and the Japanese even today.
Rising Sun shows examples of the Japanese persuasion in almost all aspects of typical American life. The Japanese motto “Business is war” comes into affect throughout the story, and is shown in their maneuvers to outwit the police. The businessmen of Nakamoto Tower know that the murder was recorded on their surveillance cameras, so they switch the tapes before the police have an opportunity to look at them themselves. Then, with technology years ahead of the Americans, they alter the video to transform the identity of the murderer. They care not for the truth to be found, and they only work to hide the murder from the public. The fear of a scandal that would topple the Nakamoto Corporation is enough to make the Japanese do whatever it takes to prevent the public from knowing of the murder.
The book also discusses the loss of basic industries to Japan. The decline of American business became apparent even to Congress, who would move to stop the sale of business to the Japanese. The American approach to business is entirely different than the Japanese approach. American companies are compelled to show profits every few months, while the Japanese don’t care for the short-term business at all. Often, they create their products and sell them below cost, a practice known as ‘dumping‘. While dumping is illegal under American and international law, the Japanese continue to do it, but only in America. They might lose money at first, but after a few years, they can refine their products and actually make them at a lower cost. By then the Japanese businesses have taken control of the market, without fear of American retaliation for their unlawful tactics.
American government has provided an open market in its business. We have laws that prevent monopolies by American owners, but we welcome foreign investors without much worry. Other countries, which Americans do business with, have provided open markets, including the Japanese. But while the Japanese claim to have an open market, they play by their own rules. They don’t sell their companies to Americans, but continue to buy ours. They force Americans to license their technology to Japanese companies before they can sell in their country. Japan takes eight years to give Americans a patent, and in the meantime the Japanese create a superior version of the same product after scrutinizing and perfecting our would-be-patented inventions. While other European countries play with a tit-for-tat strategy, Americans do nothing to prevent the Japanese from making use of their same illicit approaches over and over. America is afraid to upset the Japanese because we want to keep them as an ally of ours against Russia. At this point, two economies are too tightly intertwined for America and Japan to not come together in business.
All this is proven through the telling of the story by the author. He talks of the loss of American business to the Japanese as almost tragic. The author, Michael Crichton, makes the point that it is time for Americans to take hold of their businesses in the industries we can still control. We need to realize that if we sell all of our companies to one nation, soon that nation will be able to control our control at will. If they are the sole creator of certain items, we will most certainly become dependant on them. He suggests that the Japanese ware good at what they do, but do not care to be fair. Crichton explains that the Japanese man lives in a society entirely different from that of the American man. The Japanese change who they are and how they act based on their surroundings. American men feel that this is almost lying, and unacceptable. Japanese work as a group towards a common goal, without placing blame on an individual but coming together to solve the problem. 
I feel that Crichton makes good points throughout the book. He shows the contrast between the Japanese and American business ethics as its relates to business today. I feel that Americans should take more pride in their companies, but there are many things that Americans can learn from the Japanese as well. Americans should realize that there is more to a business than the quick profits, and a long-term venture will turn out stronger. Crichton points out that the Japanese slowly refine their products, steadily produce superior technology, while America only looks for the leaps in industry. I believe there is much to be learned from the Japanese, and we cannot be hesitant in out interactions with them. We must have a healthy and just relationship in order for both sides to profit, and so far Americans have been meek in claiming their share. We need to let the Japanese know that we will not tolerate their illegal strategies, but they will have to follow the regulations of business just as any other nation does. 
In Rising Sun, Michael Crichton provides a look at the heart of business on both the American and Japanese sides. One slowly recognizes how the world is changing around them through the relatively benign presence of business. While his book is about the investigation of a murder, the information revealed about business allows the reader to make a judgment for themselves about our nation’s pride, or lack thereof, for American industry.

Robinson Crusoe was written by Daniel Defoe. The novel was first
published in 1719. It tells the story of a young explorer who becomes marooned
on a deserted island. His experiences of the island change his outlook on life.
Daniel Defoe was a short story writer that came from an poor family.
Defoe was poor for most of his life and made his living as a butcher and a
writer. Defoe mostly wrote short stories and political essays. Robinson Crusoe
was a combination of two short stories. Many believe Defoe used Robinson
Crusoe to portray himself in a certain ways. The description was almost
identical to his own and after his wife left him, he felt as if he was marooned 
on a deserted island.
The story takes place in the 1700s on a deserted island somewhere off the
coast of Brazil. The island is fairly large in size and has a small shore. The
interior of the island has many trees, wild pigs and other small animals and a
small cave in which Crusoe stores food.
I walked about the shore lifting up my hands. Look around, 
I see nothing but water, a forest, and the remains of my
ship. At first, I was afraid of wild animals but after some
exploration of the land, the only animals I had seen were
wild pigs, squirrels, and some small birds.
The only possessions that Crusoe retrieved from the remains of his ship were a
small knife, a box of tabacco, a pipe, and a small book that would later become
his journal.
Robinson Crusoe was a young and stubborn explorer. He was extremely
tall and strong. His stay on the island changed him from a mean, stubborn man
to an open-minded protestant. 
Standing at six feet, two inches and having my long, thick 
brown hair back in a ponytail, I felt as if I was eight feet
tall. Without the permission of my parents, I was still 
sailing away from the misery. I held the cargo box is my
strong arms, waiting to board my beautiful ship.
Crusoe became a skilled craftsman and was an extremely religious man due to
his stay on the island. Being the only man on the entire island, he established a
faith in God. He also became more articulate from writing in a journal daily.
Overall, his stay on the island changed Crusoe's life greatly.
As the story begins, Robinson Crusoe defies his parents and sets out to
sea. Crusoe encounters a series of violent storms at sea and ends up in Africa.
He sets out on another voyage and is captured by the Sallee, a group of pirates.
Luckily, he manages to escape and board a Portuguese ship and sail to Brazil.
While in Brazil, Crusoe purchases a large sugar plantation. After leaving Brazil,
he encounters another storm in which his ship is destroyed and he is marooned
on an island as the only survivor.
On the island, Crusoe gathers food and builds a small shelter. He writes in
a journal to keep account of his stay. Crusoe becomes a skilled craftsman and
begins to feel a spiritual connection with God. He also builds a small boat that
he uses to sail around the island.
After living on the island for fifteen years, Crusoe discovers that savages
had landed on the island and that they perform human sacrifices. Crusoe helps a
prisoner escape from these savages. He names the prisoner Friday and teaches
him english. Together, they build a new boat and attempt to leave the island.
However, Friday learns his father is a prisoner of the savages. Crusoe and
Friday return and rescue his father and a Spaniard. The four men board a
passing boat and gain control of it. Crusoe sails back to his native land to learn
his sugar plantation has made him rich. He sells the plantation and marries. As
the novel closes, Crusoe is persuaded to take a final voyage, back to the island.
Robinson Crusoe is written using an English dialect. The narration of the
novel is simple, informal and extremely easy to understand. However, Defoe
uses verbose descriptions for characters.
He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made, 
with strong limbs, not too large, tall and well-shaped, and
I reckon he was about twenty years of age. The color
of his skin was not quite black, but very tawny; and yet 
not of an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians
and Virginians, and other natives are; but of a bright kind
of a dun olive color that had in it something agreeable, 
though not very easy to describe.
This is a description of Friday. Defoe does an excellent job of introducing the
character. This paragraph makes a clear picture of Friday to the reader.
The theme of the novel is that nature can change the way a man thinks
and his outlook on life. Crusoe was a nasty young man who hated his family
and his life as the story began. After being stranded on an island for over fifteen
years, nature changed his outlook on life. Crusoe became grateful for what he
did have and wanted to make the best out of it. He developed a stronger will
power and became more opened minded. He also thought more about the better
aspects of his life and had faith in God.
